## Benefits and advantages of containerisation

### Reducing resource costs
Let’s kick off with an advantage that every company will appeal to: reducing expenses. Containers are isolated ‘packages’, that include everything the application needs to properly run. Multiple containers can share the same OS and network connection. This is much more efficient when it comes to resource utilisation than creating a virtual machine with its own OS for each application. Containers are lightweight by design and take up fewer resources, enabling you to save on hardware and data centre costs.

### Ease-of-use and portability
The isolation containers offer enables you to run your software consistently across environments. On your laptop, on any public cloud, private cloud, or even bare metal. Containers can also be copied to development, test, integration and live environments quickly and reliably. This greatly simplifies and speeds up the software development and release process, resulting in a faster time-to-market. This advantage offers more opportunities that at first sight may not be so obvious. Think for example of your overall business goal to improve your customer relations. It probably won’t be the first thing that comes to mind, but containerisation gives you the ability to respond quickly to customer requests for bug fixes or new features: something your customers will greatly appreciate.

### Scalability and modularity
Since containers are lightweight by design, they can be created within seconds. This enables you to scale instantly, helping you for example to react to unexpected website traffic load seamlessly. Containers also make it really easy to break down your application into individual components with their own function. You might want to have your application in one container and your database running in another container. Docker lets you link these containers together to create your application, making it easy to update or scale the components independently. This advantage shines even more when used in combination with a micro services architecture where an application is built out of loosely coupled services that communicate through simple API’s.
